# SAPCL
Structure-augmented contrastive graph neural network for stance classification

# TLDR
Stance classification faces challenges due to noisy labels from complex semantics, complicating LLM training. The proposed SAPCL designs a semantic augmented graph contrastive learning framework to generate accurate stance labels from PLL.
# Abstract
As a natural language processing (NLP) task, stance classification aims to identify the stance or attitude embedded within a text. Due to the highly abstract nature of stance categories and the informal language used by social media users, accurate stance annotation is challenging. Although large language models are applicable to a variety of NLP tasks, inaccurate labeled data is difficult to directly utilize for training such models. Therefore, providing as accurate stance labels as possible for text data is a pressing issue. Partial Label Learning (PLL) is an effective approach to handle inaccurate labels, but existing PLL models focus primarily on utilizing the available conversational structure information. However, stance classification requires further exploration of the semantic relationships within the text. To address this, we propose a novel Structure-Augmented Partial label Contrastive Learning framework (SAPCL), which based on label disambiguation, combines contrastive learning with semantic structure modeling. SAPCL integrates both semantic and structural features of the text, enhancing the more effective sample contrast patterns to assist the process of PLL learning, thereby generating more accurate labels from the candidate label set. Experimental results demonstrate that SAPCL outperforms current state-of-the-art methods in both label disambiguation and classification.
